hello everyone I'm pleased to announce
my new tour for
2024 beginning in early February and
running through June Tammy and I an
assortment of special guests are going
to visit 51 cities in the US you can
find out more information about this on
my website
jordanbpeterson.com as well as accessing
all relevant ticketing information I'm
going to use the tour to walk through
some of the ideas I've been working on
my forthcoming book out November 2024 we
who wrestle with God I'm looking forward
to this I'm thrilled to be able to do it
again and I'll be pleased to see all of
you again soon
bye-bye that type of family
destruction is what I personally find
most objectionable about scientology
whether it's coercing women to get
abortions to keep serving Scientology
instead of starting families I challenge
anyone to name one other quote unquote
religious organization that Weekly buses
its clergy members to the abortion
clinic I don't think you'll be able to
find
[Music]
one hello everyone today I'm talking to
Aaron Smith Levan and he has a YouTube
channel called growing up in Scientology
where he discusses as you might guess
growing up in Scientology but it and and
he left the he left the organization
after a number of decades um and we talk
a fair bit about why he did that why he
came to the realization that this was a
sterile route but more importantly the
conversation allowed us to delve into a
problem that we all face which is the
fundamental problem of distinguishing
truth from falsehood especially
organized falsehood the the difficulty
that we face in determining what
organizations which are clearly
necessary can be trusted and what
metaphysics are reliable how you
distinguish bitter fruit from from sweet
fruit in that regard or separate wheat
from chaff and so our discussion is very
interesting in in that regard enabled us
to take those abstract considerations
and to nail them down to something very
specific you know the events of aon's
own life and the particular cult-like
nature of Scientology which is one cult
among many and so
well welcome aboard for the
trip I've been writing a fair bit in
this new book I'm finishing up it's
called we who wrestle with God and it'll
be the subject of my next tour I've been
writing a lot about the manner in which
we come to distinguish truth from
falsehood in general in our lives in the
scientific Enterprise and then let's say
in matters of Faith you know now the
scientist types would say well all faith
is delusional but
I'm I'm afraid we can't move forward
without faith so that's not a helpful
that's not a helpful objection but it
does raise us the fact that that is an
objection at all indicates the existence
of a very serious underlying problem
which is well how do we distinguish
truth from falsehood especially in
relationship to religious claims which
in some sense by definition are
amendable to Scientific analysis or
proof one answer is we just throw out
the entire religious domain but that
that's actually not even technically Pro
possible so I thought it'd be
interesting to talk to you today about
scientology specifically because I think
that it's not unreasonable whatsoever to
regard it as an outright cult and that
will enable us to use a very specific
example to delve into a more General
problem which is how do you separate
wheat from chaff or bitter fruit from
good fruit in the pursuit of the truth
or even what is the truth and um it's
always better to to ground an
abstract analysis in something concrete
and real and so talking to you about
your experiences and what you've learned
should enable us to get a long ways in
this discussion then we can more broadly
flesh it out into the issue of you know
Truth Versus Falsehood in issues of
Faith so let's start right at the
beginning um why don't we just why don't
you tell everybody a little bit about
yourself personally about where you come
from about your background your
employment let everybody get to know you
a bit and then we'll turn to the
Scientology issue more
specifically I'll do my best um how
about I start from present time and then
I I backfill a little bit sure um so one
of the things I spend most of my time on
right now is my YouTube Channel Growing
Up in Scientology and so that alludes to
the fact that I was essentially born and
raised in Scientology I was actually
four years old when my mom got into
Scientology as a single mom of uh of two
young boys and I was 12 years old maybe
just 13 years old when uh I was taken
out of school and started working for
Scientology
full-time uh full-time not day job you
know 100 hours a week 110 hours a
week and so you know my first employment
history was
Scientology and I've had employment
history after getting into Scientology
I've had employment history uh after um
leaving
Scientology but just probably most
relevant to the ation that we're having
is you know by the time I was 30 years
old I'd spent half my life working for
Scientology as a staff member and what
they call a c organization member those
are the guys who signed the the
billion-year
contracts so um yeah I mean we can go
deeper in that if you want but that's
the uh that's the nutshell well okay I
think there's two directions we could go
there the first is um well let's start
when you were four even so what do you
think it was that attracted your mother
to Scientology like you said she was a
single mother and so it's easy for
single mothers to be prayed upon because
they're quite isolated generally
speaking and so that's a problem what do
you think and and and what has she told
you about what pulled her in the
direction to begin with and what was her
structure of belief or background you
say metaphysically before before the
blandishments of Scientology were laid
out in front of her so she was raised a
Christian she was raised in a very
religious household going to church
every Sunday um I don't know exactly to
what degree she would have would
describe herself as having been a True
Believer um but I know the way she's
explained it to me it was just this
feeling this understanding this that
there is something more something
greater something outside ourselves but
not necessarily having bought in uh to
the traditional religious story she
always there was that she was meant for
something greater she was here for some
reason there was some greater value to
life um um than is a you know just a
parent in this Mortal realm and for her
Scientology um answered that question
that you know it filled that hole
whatever shape that hole was it was a
Scientology shaped hole apparently um
she was introduced to Scientology by a
woman her same uh her same age roughly
who had just had uh her own son just a
few weeks before my brother and I were
born um she was not a single mother but
that relationship between my mom and
this woman named Cheryl who got her into
Scientology ology um that that's how my
mom was introduced was through her
friend Cheryl that's how most people are
introduced to Scientology is through
some friend or associate you know
business associate or acquaintance or
something like
that now the thing about scientology
particularly at the lower levels is
Scientology is something that builds
itself as requiring no belief no faith
Scientology does not see itself as a
faith even though it does see itself as
a religion now and the the distinction
between those things if there is one
might be an interesting thing for us to
discuss but scientologists do not
believe that you have to believe in
Scientology they believe it is a
technology it is something you apply it
can be measured the results can be
measured you know they have this device
the the e- meter that they believe
assists with this
measurement and so it's this kind of
two-sided coin where my mom's looking
for some greater meaning looking for
some greater purpose looking for way to
help others Scientology doesn't you know
she comes across Scientology and she
goes oh it's something that will give me
greater purpose and greater meaning but
isn't asking me to believe in X Y and Z
we can just do um there's a very kind of
like self-helping applied practical
aspect of Scientology which by the way
is why they call themselves an applied
religious philosophy is how a
Scientologist would describe Scientology
okay well there's a bunch of things to
delve into there so so so let's list out
some of them and we can pursue them so
your mother was raised religiously and
so there's two interpretations of that
on in the realm of possibility that
spring to mind and one is that that
prepared her to be subsumed into an
alternate cult right because you might
say well because she was raised in a
religious family she
was in the belief that you should turn
to some sort of religious belief system
was inculcated into her you could also
say
that she needed that initial religious
belief like everyone does but she but it
lacked something that she required which
is something you alluded to which is the
sense not only of a higher purpose
that's specified for her but a higher
purpose that can be practically worked
towards and then you also mentioned and
this is has more broad
implications that Scientology was
attractive to her because it claimed at
least at the outset to be part of the
the technological Enterprise the
scientific Enterprise you might say that
you didn't need Faith there was a
technology that was at hand it had that
that at least the the facade of
scientific acceptability we can talk
about the eers in a while and that it
was practical and so it seems to me that
the most logical conclusion with regard
to your mother isn't so much that her
previous religious training had prepared
her to be subsumed into a cult but that
the lack that there were lacks in her
previous religious
training for example the specification
of a particular Destiny for her and the
provision of
practical what would you say practical
guidelines for how she might act to
bring the world into a higher Harmony
all of that was attractive to her does
that seem does that seem about right
yeah I would agree with
that okay okay and we'll talk about the
eer from my understanding of the Emer is
that it's a Galvan galvanometer and of
course that measures skin conductance
changes in people's hands and you know
when I did my uh PhD we used a Galvan
galvanometer essentially it was a bit
more sophisticated but same basic idea
back in the 1960s or thereabouts this
was done even before then I think
reaching all the way back to the 1920s
it was shown that you know you could ask
people questions while they were having
the skin conductance of their skin
surfaces usually their fingers measured
and if something produces emotional
arousal when it's touched upon your skin
conductance increases because you sweat
a little bit and that makes electricity
flow more or easily and so you can use
galvanometers to get at underlying
complexes and I know that the
Scientologist have capitalized on that
idea and the overlap between what they
do with the eer if I understand it
properly and what psychophysiologists
have done for a hundred years with the
galvanometer also adds a layer of
scientific credibility to it
so you know and there is some utility in
trying to get to the bottom of things so
so let's unpack that a bit later okay so
now she got introduced invited let's say
by a friend now if you're an avid
adherent of the Scientology discipline
let's say or cult is it incumbent on you
to try to bring other people into the
into the faith and and how is it or into
the Enterprise how is it that that's
done and and and how is that also
developed and fostered or
trained so it's something that's highly
encouraged it's not mandatory it's not
required um there's an incentive to do
it because when you bring someone into
Scientology you're called their a field
staff member their FSM and that person
is called your selecte and as an FSM you
get 10 or 15% Commission on every dollar
that person pays to Scientology for
courses or auditing or straight
donations uh uh so there's a financial
incentive to bring people into
Scientology uh in addition to the there
a Pam that is there a is is there a
pyramid scheme element of that or is it
do does it only go to one person like if
if your person brings in more people is
that also of benefit to you it's a it's
a one LEL it's one level deep so you you
don't get overrides on your downline
you're you only get credit for the
people you you directly bring in and
once you bring them in you have to
continue to be sort of their personal
coach and and mentor on their way up
scientology's bridge to total freedom or
another Scientologist can swoop in and
become that person's FSM and get
commissions for them so oh I see so
there's a competition for that as well
an ongoing competition yes it's
definitely a zero sum game and okay let
let's start out by giving the devil is
due you know obviously your mother was
attracted by this and it's reasonable to
assume that by hook or by crook some
something that was genuine or at least
significantly attractive was offered to
her what do you think Scientology did
for her
that that filled the void that that had
opened up inside of her at the lower
level Scientology gives you an
explanation for what's wrong with you
that or you know anything that you could
um in an insecure way feel is wrong with
you
indecisiveness uh not living up to your
full potential um uh self-doubt
insecurity all these things that that
the cause of this is called the reactive
mind and that's kind of elun hub's ver
version of the the forian uh
subconscious and that the reactive mind
is a collection of all the recordings of
pain and
unconsciousness and these recordings are
called engrams and these engrams compose
your reactive mind and and and you're
not to blame for the fact that you have
a reactive mind it's not your fault the
engrams are the source of all of this
wrongness and negativity and Scientology
and dianic give you the tools to resolve
your reactive mind so there's an
attractiveness to this which is saying
you're someone who uh always has wanted
to do better than what then how you've
been doing this thing called your
reactive mind is holding you back it's
not your fault and we have the
technology through our procedures in our
processes we can get rid of your
reactive mind and that will leave you um
uh once you shed your reactive mind that
basically leaves you as a perfect
Computing analyzing uh it leaves you
with a perfectly Computing and analyzing
mind that's the pitch in the beginning
so it's kind of solving a lot of
problems at once and shifting
responsibility to something outside of
yourself right now is that
clearing yes the procedure of getting
rid of your reactive mind is called
clearing and then you achieve the state
of clear and if you ever hear a
Scientologist say our goal is to clear
the planet that's actually what they
mean it's getting the majority of the
population of Earth up to Scientology
state of clear okay okay so we're going
to give the devil his due on that front
too so um you know obviously hubard
pulled his ideas from the broader uh
like
intellectual body that was popular and
developing during his time and all of
what you just described is analogous to
psychodynamic complex Theory and so the
and you can see so let let me give you
an example of that
so if you're sitting with a client and
they communicate a dream to you and you
want to analyze the
dream you can look for corresponding
literary motifs the same way you would
when you're trying to understand any
story and analyze it thinking of a dream
as a story but the association technique
that Freud developed is predicate ated
on the idea that you can flesh out the
meaning of a dream or any thought for
that matter any thought by analyzing the
pattern of associations that surround
that thought or story so for example if
there's an image in a dream know imagine
that you were dreaming and you dreamt
that you uh you pulled a boat out of a
rampaging River and there was a diamond
inside of it you know the first thing I
would ask you is well what comes to mind
and you have to watch this what comes to
mind when you think of a river and then
maybe person will tell you a couple
stories about a river and then you can
ask them about a boot and you can ask
them what a diamond means and you you
try to flesh out the whole expanse of
ideas that surrounds those images and
what you're doing is investigating the
structure of the associated ideas that
gave rise to the images to begin with
and what you find when you do that is
that and and and Freud laid this out
first first is that if you if you pursue
that with
enough
seriousness you'll find something at the
bottom of it that's often an unsolved
problem and that would be so the engrams
are memories that's a good way of
thinking about them and there are
obstacles to people's progress that are
un implicit assumptions that they bring
to bear about particular situations that
are invisible impediments to their
progress so for example I I had a client
who uh had a very traumatic experience
in a hospital when she was about five
she fell into the hands of a she had
kind of a dreadful accident she was in a
shopping cart that actually rolled down
a hill and it dumped her and hurt her
quite badly and when she was put in the
hospital she fell into the hands of a
very sadistic nurse who was kind of
tormenting her behind the scenes and and
at that time the hospitals didn't let
parents visit because they felt that the
continual introduction of a parent and
the separation was harder on children
than just the absence of the parents
which is a absolutely Preposterous
absurd and cruel Theory but that was the
case and so she felt simultaneously
betrayed hurt betrayed and then she fell
into the hands of this sadistic um nurse
and so when we were investigating some
of the dream imagery associated with her
memories that story arose and she'd
actually developed an entire complex of
paranoia and suspicion in relationship
to all establishments of authority
because when she was five she had been
betrayed by her parents who abandoned
her in the hospital that's how she felt
when she was five and then of course she
fell into the hands of this Psychopathic
nurse who was basically torturing her
behind the scenes and so it's often the
case that so what H what that what
happened to her as a consequence of that
was that because she developed such a
deep distrust of Institutions every time
she was involved with an institution she
got herself in trouble CU she was you
know she was like a little puppy that
growled you know when someone pet leaned
down to pet it because it had been
kicked too many times and her paranoia
just got her in constant trouble with
institutions and of course that fostered
her belief that institutions were
basically bad news the reason I'm going
through all that is because the notion
that there are invisible imp impediments
to your progress that are nested inside
your Miss systems of memory that's true
and it's also true that clearing those
now you don't clear them just by
recognizing them you clear them by
reconfiguring them you know so with her
what we did was a pretty lengthy
analysis of under what conditions a
mature PE person would trust
institutions and under what conditions
you should be skeptical you know we
tried to generate a more mature
Viewpoint of Institutions per se rather
than this reflex of distrust which was
too unsophisticated and low resolution
now the reason I went through all that
is because that explanation is actually
quite credible and even the alliance of
the galvanometer with that explanation
that's derived directly from early
psychoanalytic work in the 1920s because
that's when all that started and
psychologists social psychologists and
personality psychologists
psychophysiologists still use
psychophysiological me measurements of
various sorts to infer the existence of
these complexes that lurk behind the
scenes it's very integral part of
psychology so you can understand well
first of all where those ideas actually
came from but even more importantly why
they would be attractive to people now
you added another thing that was of
Interest I want to ask you more about
this you said
that the scientologists also insist that
this isn't your
fault now the classic Christian attitude
towards your complex of problems is that
the degree to which it's your fault is
open up open for dispute so let me give
you an example of that so imagine that
you have a mother who's kind of
overbearing and
overprotective and you're a six-year-old
kid and you're you didn't do your
homework one day and so you decide to
feain illness to skip school and your
mother who's overbearing and over for
protective also hasn't pursued her own
life and she's Lonesome and so you tell
her she's you're sick but you're not and
she doesn't think you are but she is
just as happy if you're at home and so
you might say well that's the mother's
fault cuz she's so damn overbearing but
it's also to some degree the kid's fault
because he's looking for an easy out and
so and this is what you do in good
psycho therapy too you know like if I
found out that you had a complex the
first thing I'd try to do is think okay
well what were the
situational conditions that gave rise to
that like maybe you had a very
overbearing father but I'd also want to
find out well what Temptations did you
fall prey to let's say that increased
the probability that you would develop
that complex for reasons of your own
those are called secondary gains so for
example this is the secondary gain issue
I'm curious about you said that
these what did you call them andrs these
grams these engrams in the reactive mind
they're not your fault see you can see
why that would be attractive right
because it enables you to place the
responsibility for your suffering on
someone else's on someone or something
else and so I'm wondering what do you
think about that like is that one of the
things about scientology that's
particularly manipulative or there's a
mercy in it you know and I mean lots of
people are abused by their parents and
abused by society and it's not
surprising they're hurt and it's not
exactly their fault so what do you think
about that the appeal and the
attractiveness of being told that
everything that's wrong with you is
because of this thing and you are not to
blame for this thing the attractiveness
of that is why that is the message
Scientology gives you at the
introductory lower levels the that's so
it's the bait the switch is that as you
progress in Scientology you come to
realize that
actually as a spiritual being everything
that happens to you by you by others to
others is actually your fault and to
assume full responsibility you have to
understand how you are actually the
prime cause for everything that has ever
happened including happened to you and
so uh this is the difference between
Dione Xs and Scientology actually um
Dione XS is supposed to be a mental
science and it's supposed to be the
process of getting rid of these
engrams and then fast forward a couple
years after Erin Herber started Di itics
and then he started pursuing the
spiritual angle the religion angle and
so instead of trying to recall moments
of pain and unconsciousness as early as
you know prenatal incidents in the womb
all of a sudden people were remembering
painful incidents of pain and
unconsciousness from previous lives and
that opened the door to oh previous
lives What's Happening Here the
introduction of an immortal spiritual
being and then El Ron Hub continued on
with the religion angle and said well
actually as a spiritual being you were
the one creating your own reactive mind
and once you've gotten rid of your own
reactive mind El run Hubbert introduces
you to the confidential upper level
materials which is by the way you as a
spiritual being you're in Scientology
they call you a thean you have now
gotten rid of your own reactive mind but
now the reason why there's still things
wrong with you is you have tens of
thousands of other fans Spiritual Beings
stuck to you as parasites as entities on
your body all over your body and those
beings all have their own reactive mind
and those beings are through some sort
of you know spiritual connection um
projecting onto you you are experiencing
their pains you are experiencing their
Neurosis psychosis whatever you know
anything that could be wrong with you
and so now you have to go through a
yearslong process of
telepathically counseling using the
Scientology procedures these entities
these beings these
theant to basically exercise them off of
your body wake them up so that they'll
realize who they are what they are and
go and pick up a new body at the local
Maternity Ward and and grow up to be a
cleared individual and likely join
Scientology so this idea of getting rid
of your reactive mind is something
that's introduced to you at the very
lowest levels and applies all the way up
to the highest levels it just switches
from getting rid of your own reactive
mind to to getting rid of these entities
reactive Minds okay okay so so let me
take that apart in a couple of ways so
the first question I have there
is how is the switch from it's not your
fault two it's your
responsibility how does that come about
and what's the rationale for that it
comes about when uh you introduce the
immortal
spiritual um The Immortal Spirit into
the equation and elron hub's version of
that is
that about 65 trillion years ago there
was some sort of spiritual big bang when
all spiritual entities that exist came
into existence you'd think he would talk
a little bit more about this in
Scientology but he really
doesn't and um and that these spiritual
entities are all natively Godlike and
I'm not not like the Christian God but
like like you know ripping atmospheres
off of galaxies um creating planets
destroying planets creating universes
like that each in each spiritual entity
here on Earth me you we are natively
Godlike and we we've basically we
basically got so bored with our power
that we wanted a more interesting game
so we decided to handicap ourselves in
various ways and then just choose to for
get that we had handicapped ourselves uh
we used to not even exist in a physical
Universe they used to not be a physical
universe so we created a physical
Universe to have something that we could
then trap ourselves in to have some sort
of a game that we could try to some sort
of a trap that we could try to get out
of to have this you know interesting
experience um and without being too
long-winded about this it it's basically
when elun hubard makes the jump from
just trying to be a poor man's mental
healthc care like a mental therapy di
index was supposed to be mental therapy
to going okay we're going to slightly
jump off from what we're pretending as a
science now we're going to get into
religion and spiritual philosophy we're
going to um and honestly that was
introduced by going into past lives when
you start going into past life memories
you have to talk about some entity that
transcends death and that becomes
scientology's thetan the soul the spirit
right well okay so so there is he is
introduced see part of the reason that
Cults have such attractiveness is that
they do harness archetypal ideas right
Eternal religious ideas that's a good
way of thinking about it or patterns of
attention and action that are intrinsic
to to what it means to be human and
there's clearly the introduction of a
karmal likee idea there right that that
your destiny is a consequence of your
your past choices I mean that's that's a
tenant of Hinduism obviously and that
you're playing out the consequences of
this infinite array of choices extended
over the longest possible period and
it's also the case that see and this is
a very tricky issue so dovi said for
example that you're not only responsible
for everything that you do and that
everything that happens to you but for
everything that everyone else does and
everything that happens to them right
and that's well that's a Doctrine that's
associated with the broadest possible
conception of responsibility and then
the Buddha now when the Buddha hits
Enlightenment under the bow tree he's
offered the opportunity to stay in
Paradise
forever but you know eternally and he
rejects that because he believes that it
would be inappropriate for him to occupy
the paradisal state unless EV unless
everyone was brought into the same state
you know and so in Many religious
systems there is a transition point that
you might consider equivalent to the
initi ation into the religious
Enterprise that brings people beyond
their local concerns let's say with
their own destiny and provides them with
the Insight let's say that they are in
some sense ultimately responsible right
and then God only knows what that
ultimate responsibility means now hubard
concretized that and added a level of
you know a variety of levels of strange
narrative overlay um including the idea
of these thetans but let's let's take
that apart a little bit too you
know you might think that you have your
act together quite well you know let's
just assume that you do as an autonomous
individual but then you know you you're
home for Christmas and you go see your
family members and there's all sorts of
unresolved issues around that within
your family and those are definitely
affecting you in all sorts of ways right
and then in the broader social Community
you're going to be interacting with
people who are possessed by one idea or
another and that's going to inter
interfere with your movement forward and
so in some sense there is no Redemption
for you in an absolute sense in the
presence of the pathology unresolved
pathology of the past and of other
people and so it sounds to me like
hubard concretized that idea with the
notion of these fans and so you said
that they he conceptualized them as sort
of stuck to you and so can you elaborate
a little bit more on that like how did
he conceptualize these these fatan likee
beings and what does it mean that
they're intimately associated with you
and that you have to also clear them and
how do you go about doing that so this
gets you know into some things that have
been widely ridiculed fairly so in
places like South Park and other places
on the internet so at the lower levels
of Scientology the non-confidential
levels everyone's considered a a aan aan
is the primary animator of the body it
is the basically the prime mover unmoved
uh we are I'm a th and you're a th and
aan is something you are not something
you have
okay it's not until you get to the upper
confidential levels of Scientology that
elron hubard introduces this concept of
a body Thon and A Thon cluster and his
explanation for what this is and how it
came about is that um and by the way
Scientologist concept of life in the
galaxy is very much like Star Wars every
planet or every star system has uh
intelligent biological life okay so
elron hubard discussed this thing called
the Galactic Federation however many in
this in this galaxy of however many
planets that was composed of there was
this politician um hubard decided to
give him a name it's zenu or zimu and he
decided his system was too
populated so his plan to get rid of you
know good portion of the population was
to call everybody in for tax audits
under false pretense and then when they
showed up to freeze them in glycol and
load them up on Space planes and fly
them to Earth and drop these people into
volcanoes and blow them up with hydrogen
bombs now this incident was so severe
this was such an engram for them and
this happened about 76 million years ago
of course the volcanoes on Earth didn't
exist 76 million years ago but don't
think about it too deeply and this
incident for these beings was
so you can't kill a thean but it came
about as close to it as you could that
it's basically left these beings um in
this half dead unconscious you know
crazy State and they're just blowing in
The Winds of Earth for the last 76
million years and so then when uh you
know the human body uh evolved through
natural selection which scientologists
are not opposed to necessarily um hubard
had his own spin on Evolution but it
doesn't necessarily contradict with
natural selection
uh that when human bodies arrived here
on Earth uh a fresh set of fans that
were not exposed to the volcano incident
a fresh set of fans were rounded up and
dropped off to this planet so that this
planet could be a prison planet and
elron Herbert says that if you're on
this planet you were a troublemaker you
were a rebel you were a an artist you
were someone who couldn't be controlled
the system wanted to uh didn't like you
thought you were going to help overthrow
the system one day you're like the
hippie spiritual hippie
and and so l c elron hubard creates this
explanation that this is a prison planet
that we are basically doomed to Live
lifetime after lifetime after Lifetime
with our memories being wiped in the
between lives implant station and that
the fact that we live uh We believe We
Live single lives uh for the most part
most people on Earth are not spiritual
or religious We believe We Came From mud
uh Elon hubard was very much um uh he
hates Psychiatry psychiatrist
psychology uh Darwin you know the
anything anything opposed to
spirituality hubard you know later on
claimed to be absolutely against and
so and even Huard would even say that
the religious people on Earth who uh
according to hubard have been
pre-programmed by our alien captor
overlords sort of spiritually programmed
to invent these stories the world's
major religions to of keep us occupied
and to keep us from uh realizing that
Earth is a prison and to keep us from uh
seeking a way to get out of the prison
and that even the religions of Earth
serve the purpose of helping to keep the
CI the the population of Earth trapped
trapped
spiritually as we head toward a
presidential election in November one
thing you can be sure of 2024 will be a
tumultuous year how will your
hard-earned savings Fair you already see
the impacts of inflation at the pump in
the grocery store the dollar continues
to lose buying power quicker than wages
can increase so how are you protecting
your savings consider diversifying with
gold from the Birch gold group for
decades gold has been the choice of
investors in central banks to hedge
against inflation if you have an IRA or
401K from a previous employer that's
just Gathering dust call Birch gold and
they will help you convert it into an
IRA in Gold you won't pay a penny out of
pocket they will simply convert that
401k into physical gold which unlike
digital currency can't be tampered with
just text Jordan to
[Music]
9898917350
why why is it what's the explanation for
the motivation to trap us spiritually
and to put us on the prison planet like
what's his so basically he's trying to
conjure up up an explanation for the
Fallen state of man speaking let's say
from a judeo-christian perspective yeah
and we have to address that because
people do feel
that well people do feel that the world
is a veil of tears and that that
requires an explanation so
why and and you Associated that to some
degree with the fact that the the fan
spirits who were trapped on Earth were
there because they were Rebels or
because they were
artists so there's a there's but
rebelling rebelling against what
exactly so hubard doesn't spend a lot of
time talking about this but it would
just essentially be that just think of
Earth as the goog of the Galactic
Federation anyone who's speaking out
anyone um who might become popular
enough to gather enough power in society
to to be an a thought leader an opinion
leader Maybe One Day lead a Revolt that
any anyone that zenu or anyone likes
zenu I mean his name could have been Bob
for all that it matters um that this is
just a Dumping Ground a Dumping Ground a
prison where no one's people are going
to forget that we were ever even sent
here no one will be coming to break us
out and it's really only elron hubard
and dynetics and Scientology that for
the first time ever has offered the
solution to free everyone from this trap
now you mentioned Buddha you might be
interested to know that Al Hub claimed
to have been Buddha and claimed that as
Buddha the state that he thought he
created um and you'll know better than I
is it bod is it Bodi do you know I mean
I don't know B yeah okay that he thought
Bodi was a permanent State um but
afterwards he he learned it was only
temporary and he had to come back and
create dynetics and Scientology to
create a permanent state that you not
yeah yeah okay that makes sense yeah
well it's okay so it's so interesting
because hubard was the science fiction
writer and this is such an interesting
meld of archetypal religious idea and
science fiction presumption and it is
also the case by the way that you know
science fiction is very and and fantasy
associated with it is extremely popular
among atheistic materialist people like
engineers and the more technically
minded like they get a tremendous amount
of their religious education and
motivation through Science Fiction and
Fantasy and you can see that manifest
itself in the you know absolute
cult-like followings of shows like Star
Trek and and uh and Star Wars and hubard
was certainly part of that Dynamic
complex I mean I don't remember how many
science fiction books he wrote but
plenty and so you can see this you can
see this as the a more religious
manifestation of a much broader cultural
proclivity to turn this kind of
mythologizing into something
approximating a belief set and that's
certainly the case with Star Trek and
Star Wars you even see it to some degree
in the Marvel Universe right with the
notion that the Galaxy is populated by
these Cosmic beings it's it's a
recreation of the of it's a recreation
of of of the of the of what the Divine
hierarchy of the Greeks and the Romans
essentially it's Recreation of the same
ideas and so how much okay
so I can see the archetypical rationale
for many of these ideas now there's a
couple of things you touched on that
that are again Temptations I would say
but they also rely on archetypal
structuring so you don't get initiated
into the Mysteries until You' delve
you've demonstrated your commitment to
the religion that's not something unique
to
Scientology and it's confidential so
that makes it into a mystery religion
but there's also a really interesting
appeal to narcissism embedded in it
because from what I've been able to
derive from what you've told me hubard
is also essentially describing no he's
presenting to his higher level acolytes
the possibility that they're truly
remarkable Divine beings right marked
out by their ability to become
potentially dangerously charismatic and
to pose a threat to the to the cosmic
tyrannical order and you could imagine
that that's also you know it's certainly
the case that the typical sort of nerdy
engineer who's a Star Wars acolyte let's
say likes to style himself in his
fantasies in the image of of Mark
Hamill's character right and and to look
for a mentor like Obi-Wan Kenobi I mean
and so the notion that hubard could
because you might ask yourself well
what's enticing people farther down the
rabbit hole once they've hit that
threshold of confidentiality and the
higher Mysteries are revealed and the
Revelation that you have this infinite
responsibility to set the world right
but that you're also the sort of being
that has that capacity because of your
intrinsic specialness you can understand
that that's a pretty potent and heady
offering especially once you're in it
why like you in it for a long time and I
mean you said you were born into it so
you know that makes it more complicated
but what element of ego do you think was
present in what Scientology offered you
that was psychologically attract Ive to
you so for me and and and the experience
of someone who was put into it brought
into it pushed into it as a child is
greatly different than someone who chose
to join as an adult I truly believed in
the most fundamental level of the
Scientology story that we are Eternal
Spiritual Beings that these bodies are
actually a a prison of their own type
and that with enough Scientology
auditing you can get to the point where
you you can positively and stably
exterior at will with full perceptions
go in and out of your body at will this
is you could go create this to remote
viewing you could like that is
essentially what scientologists are
hoping to accomplish is to get to a
point spiritually where you can be fully
stably exterior of your body at will and
with full perception so it's not some
vague sense or feeling it's like as
clearly as I'm looking at you from
behind my eyeballs right now I would be
able pop out over here and do the exact
same thing and look at myself from
behind and that might seem like um an
interesting little parlor trick that
people are hoping they're going to
attain except that the ability to do
that would be evidence that you are
completely free from the pins that are
holding you to this prison this mortal
flesh and that and that you think that
once you achieve that ability you should
be able to uh stop keep reincarnating
here on Earth you should be able to go
out to you know visit all the other get
born on another planet somewhere or
something and El Ron Herber said no no
no no you don't want your fellow mankind
on your conscience so if you get to that
level in Scientology it's ACC combinant
upon you to come back reincarnate grow
up again in a new body and help get more
people into Scientology and up
scientology's bridge to total freedom
because um keep in mind um becoming this
natively all powerful uh spiritual being
doesn't inherently give you the power to
help your fellow mankind you can still
only help your mankind by using
Scientology technology and so
scientologists are hoping to get to the
point where they achieve this spiritual
ability and also are able to bypass I
mentioned this word before but I didn't
describe it the uh the between lives
implant station so these are literal you
know maybe a combination of physical and
metaphysical locations that
scientologists believe exist on the moon
and Mars and Venus and whatever and that
we're programmed as beings as a part of
our um sentence to be you know to this
Prison Planet we're programmed that one
once our body dies we you know flash
over to the implant station get our
memory wiped or fan memory wiped flash
back down beamed back down the earth
into a new baby body and and you live a
brand new life um with full Amnesia of
your prior life and lives and
scientologists believe that with enough
auditing you can achieve this skill of
being fully stably exterior at will with
full perceptions and also the awareness
and the ability to bypass the between
lives implant station so that when you
come back next lifetime you'll have full
and Total Recall of everything you
learned in Scientology you won't have to
get trained on how to be a Scientology
auditor again you'll retain that
knowledge and you can just hit the
ground running as you know I don't know
a 12 13 14y old Scientology auditor
helping to move more people up to the
state of clear achieving this state of
clear getting rid of your reactive mind
is everything Scientology is supposed to
be about now in modern times it's become
nothing but a real estate fundraising
scam but you know if we're talking about
back when elron hubard was actually
running things um uh achieving the state
of clear and getting at least half the
population of Earth to achieve the state
of clear is is the day-to-day mission of
Scientology okay okay so let's let's
parallel two things here so I think
we've done a good job of giving the
devil is due now what we might ask
ourselves is well hubard obviously had a
talent for tapping into the archetypal
fantasy substrate he wouldn't have been
a success uccessful science fiction
author if he hadn't been able to do that
so he certainly had some talent in that
regard now you made I I guess I would
ask like so then given all this its
attractiveness on the ethical front its
explanatory power why and the fact that
you were born into it why in the world
did you start to become
skeptical on what grounds did you
manifest that skepticism and how is that
associated with your kind of offthe cuff
comment there at the end that you know
this is degenerated into nothing but a
giant real estate scam right and this
this brings us back to the beginning of
our discussion it's like well we need to
live in a metaphysical realm we we need
to live in a story that what would you
say
offers food for the craving we have for
a metaphysical explanation to round out
our lives and H provided a very baroke
and elaborate explanation which isn't
without its internal logic now but you
obviously decided that some point that
this wasn't for you or maybe for anyone
else and so apart from the you know
science fiction preposterousness of the
entire account which as I said is
grounded in a set of archetypal ideas um
what is it that well let's say what
bounced you out of the Scientology
conceptual world all right let me let me
take a whack at this CU it's never just
one thing but I'm going to try not to
get too far into the Weeds on this um
and let me first make sure I fully
answered your previous question which
was even as a person being born into it
what what was it that appealed to the
ego of it and so for me it was actually
believing that this is a prison we do
all need to be free from the prison and
that these upper confidential levels
which I had never done I did not know
what was on them these upper
confidential levels really did deliver
that result and that basically we're in
The Matrix here and by doing scient you
get unplugged from The Matrix and
nothing could possibly be more important
than that and even though um I could see
people in my environment as a young
little good Scientology staff member I
could see people who had done all of
scientology's auditing levels and I
could see that they were no more special
in any way than I was not having done
any of the levels that was evident to me
at a very young age AG I still let the
belief in what scientologists call the
upper unreleased OT levels see in
Scientology you can only go up to
ot8 well there's this story that elen
hubard went off for the last six years
of his life and created ot9 through 15
and that when he dropped his body in
1986 he didn't die he didn't have a
stroke he positively shed his body after
finishing up through ot5 and he shed his
body so that he could continue on with
upper OT level research that his body
was preventing him from being able to do
so the myth that I believed as a
Scientologist is the myth of the upper
unreleased OT levels ot9 through ot5
okay that simple little idea that the
real magic is still in the vault and if
we can only expand scientology's current
organizations up to a certain level
based on the instructions Elon Hub left
be behind these levels will be able to
be released and we'll finally be able to
have auditing that allows us to become
fully stably exterior at well with full
perception that for me was the Lynch pin
that for me was like my version of
believing in a heaven right right right
well did that also help to explain to
you why the people who had gone through
the clearing process were still not
sufficiently special it's because well
they'd gone a long ways but there was
still much more to be discovered yes
exactly exactly and so what do you think
okay so let's let's look into that a bit
like what do you think
what do you
think made you find that appealing like
it was the knowledge of I guess it was
the knowledge that there were still
things you could discover that would
Enlighten you that were still part and
parcel of the process that you'd already
invested a fair bit of your life into
and that also had like encapsulated your
mother I mean because to step outside of
that you have to let go of a lot right
you have to think oh my God my mother
was far off the Beaten Track and that's
a really complicated thing to come to
term terms with and then you have to
come to terms with the fact that you
were sort of arbitrarily placed in a
position at your birth where you were
engaged you know involved in this cult
which seems to be kind of unfair at a
cosmic level and then you have to
re-evaluate all of your own beliefs like
there's a lot that you have to let go of
before you can escape from this so
that's a problem on the anxiety side but
then it also beckoned to you with the
promise of knowledge yet not yet
attained that you could get to with
sufficient discipline well that's a
headyy mix you know okay so so yeah and
not knowledge but
ability okay right right right and I
would argue that it's not that there was
an aspect of this that I found appealing
it's that this is what I was told was
true it didn't matter if it was
appealing that this is what's true and
this is a prison planet and it it'd be
like you know uh you you're familiar
with the movie of The Matrix I assume oh
yes well you live in The Matrix they can
make your life amazing and the steak
tastes great and the women and the
everything but reality if you get
unplugged from The Matrix reality is not
as nice it is not as fun it is not as
comfortable but it's reality and
scientologists you know as a
Scientologist what I was told is look
this it this might be a great Lifetime
right we might I might have trappings of
wealth and great weather and vacations
but that's the prison don't be
distracted by The Matrix we need to
unplug ourselves from the Matrix and we
need to unplug everyone else so in a
sense it's not appealing in a sense it's
just the burden of the responsibility
that we have if this is the version of
reality we subscribe to right well well
that's so interesting because that means
that it's not appealing in the narrowly
hedonistic manner but that it's actually
a call strangely enough to adopt
something like a higher order ethical
responsibility right adherence to the
truth and then participation in this
process of universal salvation okay well
again that sounds pretty good so why did
you stop why did you stop with your
adherence so the experience of being a
staff member in Scientology and being a
seor member in Scientology um it's a
very hectic chaotic high stress
experience and as a good little
Scientology staff member I always
believed that at scientology's secret
management base now I know it's in
Gilman Hot Springs California but at the
time in Scientology no one was allowed
to know where the secret intern
management base was where David mavich
and all of his staff worked in order
what I believed of Scientology led me to
believe that if Scientology were
true if elron Herbert's technology was
true and accurate and worked all the
time when applied correctly the
international Scientology base would be
a
Utopia it would be like a perfect
existence of people working in Harmony
in coordination in Affinity with one
another no stress no anxiety no anger no
temper none of the trappings of the
reactive mind mind you might
say in 2009 the Tampa Bay times did a
series of Articles called the truth
rundown and for the first time ever some
of these Scientology Executives
highlevel Scientology Executives who had
recently departed but scientologists
didn't know these people had departed
not only had these people left the
management ranks they had left
Scientology altogether these people were
celebrities in Scientology these were
the international manag managers that
all scientologists would see at the
international events
six times a
year these people started speaking out
about what a unmitigated hellhole the
international Scientology management
base was working under David
mavich that for me was the first crack
in the dam it just caused me to
immediately question and reframe things
like hold on hold on hold
on at the international base they don't
even have to deal with Scientology
public they don't even have to deal with
anyone demands they don't have to
deliver services to anyone all they have
to do is get along with with each other
H how could it be so bad why did you
believe the accounts do you think oh
because they were people who I had um uh
uh famous figures in Scientology I see I
see so these were
people the highest level managers
working under David M okay so it was
hard to reconcile well that's right and
so up until then any horrible
experiences I had in Scientology working
as a staff member or a member in my mind
I was like it's only bad at this level
because we're too far away from David
miscavage he hasn't there's too many um
filters between us and him but one of
the things that kept me believing was
that the closer you got to David mavich
the better things were and once I was
exposed to information that allowed me
to credibly conclude that the actual
opposite was true the closer you got to
David mavich the worse it was and what I
was experiencing at the lower levels was
just the trickle down effect of his
horribly abusive and psychotic behavior
right right so now the higher echelons
are contaminated rather than pure that's
right and so that's the first thing that
got me going hold on something is not as
I thought it was okay but that wasn't it
that wasn't it the following item is
what did it for me there was a
particular seaorg member that I knew of
by the name of Dan and he had a
particular job at uh International
management where I knew that if anyone
knew what elron hubard left behind it
was this guy like the job that he had
was to compile everything elron hubber
had left behind and figure out what of
that material how it could be organized
and released as services that
Scientologist could
do he was one of the former Executives
that left and was speaking out and when
I heard from him that these upper
unreleased OT
levels were a myth
they don't exist elen hubber did not
leave behind any notes there's nothing
in the vault that that no one in Upper
Scientology management has any clue
whatsoever what was supposed to be on
these upper OT
levels I said you should have told me
that 20 years ago I'm
done I said that's all I needed to hear
I said that was the Keystone that was
holding it all in place for me anyway
was this belief that that's why
Scientology was important
because these unreleased OT levels is
what would unplug all Humanity from The
Matrix and then we would go off to
another planet and unplug everyone on
that planet and off to another planet
and so honestly Jordan it was just that
one piece of information there are no
upper un level well that's a major piece
you know well one of the there's a
gospel um insistence that you can that
that you have to evaluate the spirits to
see if they're of God right because you
can have a revelation you can encounter
information that seems credible but that
is perverse in some Manner and so then
the question is how do you distinguish
again truth from falsehood and by their
fruits you will know them is a good one
so let let me give you a concrete
example of that so I worked in the '90s
at Harvard and that was a very
interesting place to work they claimed
the pursuit of
excellence and when I went there that
was the case like everything at the
University virtually everything was
subordinated to the pursuit of
Excellence so when the graduates arrived
there they weren't disciplined
harshly it wasn't a rule-bound tyranny
it was a place that was extremely
competitive but it was competitive
because everyone was doing everything
they could to work as hard as they
possibly could and so it was very
intimidating for the undergraduates
because they came there with all these
other very smart kids and you know they
were generally valedictorians and so
forth in their own class but when they
got to Harvard they were kind of average
on average and so it was a very intense
place but that also was true of the
assistant professors the junior
professors it was true of the associate
professors it was true of the full
professors and the administrators served
that Enterprise and were Bound by the
same ethos and so Not only was
Excellence worshiped at the top you know
as a principle that ethos saturated the
entire organization okay now I left
Harvard and I went to the University of
Toronto and the University of Toronto is
a pretty good University but it wasn't
as good a university as Harvard by any
stretch of the imagination and it did a
lot of mouth service with regard to
Excellence in fact you couldn't walk
anywhere at the University of in Toronto
without you know being berated about
Excellence but in the details that just
wasn't the case like the pursuit of
Excellence was frowned upon often and
punished now not not universally I'm I'm
not saying that but in contrast to
Harvard which you know was arguably the
preeminent University in the world at
the time and so you could you could tell
the difference between the two
organizations in the actual details of
day-to-day interaction right there was a
fractal relationship between what was
being claimed excellence and its
distribution at Harvard which was
obvious and then at the University of
Toronto where you know any deviation in
the direction of Excellence you might
say this about Canada in general by the
way was just as likely to met be met
with punishment as as reward and so that
is one of the ways that people can
calibrate the truth right it's not the
only way and and it's not sufficient but
you can go to an organization this is
one of the reasons by the way I've like
to work with the daily wire you know I
had no idea what would happen when I
started a partnership with them but my
experience has been
that they're very open to creative ideas
and not only do they leave me the hell
alone if I have an idea they they try
real hard to help me put it into
practice and it's actually helpful right
so as far as I'm concerned that adds to
their credibility right because they're
practicing what they preach now what you
pointed out was that you had a belief
that at the higher levels of effort
there would be a commensurate reward
that the whole Enterprise was predicated
on the pursuit of something
approximating excellence and that was
one of the things that kept you going
and then when you found out that that
wasn't the case that the fruits were
bitter
that was enough to collapse the
Enterprise for you now you laugh about
that now kind of ruul but that like I
can't imagine that Discovery was
anything approximating Pleasant for you
like why didn't you collapse completely
I think it's because to a certain level
what I did in
Scientology was I I was really just as a
child put on this path given tasks and
at some point decided that what I my
goal was just going to be the absolute
best at doing what it was I was being
asked to do and I didn't NE it didn't
necessarily require a huge commitment on
my part other than getting really good
at my job I did not every day have to
buy in to this entire story of the
prison planet it was only when I would
be struggling when I would you know feel
unappreciated if I was feeling I was
receiving an injustice that I didn't
want to do this anymore that I would go
now hold on a second there was a really
good reason I'm spending my entire life
dedicated to this cause now what was
that reason cuz I seem to have forgotten
it and then I'll go oh Prison Planet uh
Prison Planet the reason oh I feel so
much better now that I've reminded
myself that the reason I'm suffering in
this way is for the cause of freeing
everyone from the prison plan it and
then I would rededicate myself to very
much doing my job in the best possible
way right but are you a conscientious
person well I mean I don't know if I'm
qualified to say
that well you said you well I'm asking
because you said said that you found it
meaningful to be dedicating yourself to
your job and attending to the details
you know and there is a moral striving
in that like I'm going to use this
example and I'm not saying it
characterizes you but it's a good
example like many of the functionaries
in extraordinarily pathological States
so we could take the national socialists
for an example were very good at their
local jobs you know and they tried to
now there would be some striving upward
and some ego competition there and some
struggling for power but lots of times
people were just as they say following
orders but to make that more realistic
is that they had a bounded world where
they had their tasks and they were
microtasks in some ways and there was no
reason for them to lift their heads up
above those microtasks and ask where the
whole damn ship was going and you said
you know essentially that characterized
your life that is part of being in the
Matrix in a sense but it's also the case
that people generally that is generally
how people run their lives like once you
decide you're going to be a school
teacher you concentrate on teaching
rather than assessing the validity of
the entire educational Enterprise right
even if you're playing soccer if you're
out on the field you don't be berating
yourself because you're not playing
basketball right you're concentrating on
trying to get the the ball in the goal
so so it's not surprising that you took
refuge in the you know the microcosm
that you inhabited and what did you find
that was locally rewarding about that
like what what in your job daytoday kept
you going you know I know you had to
remind yourself of the metaphysics from
time to time but what kept you going
dayto day you know there's a lot of
great people in Scientology
scientologists are motivated are good
people they're motivated by an intent to
help they think Scientology is the best
tool by which to help people and my job
in Scientology was always um to help
people this is interesting to think of
it this way my job was to help people
who someone else had already convinced
to pay for the course and yet another
person had convinced them to come in and
take the course and my job was to help
get them through the course so I was in
my own way as a good Scientology staff
member helping people who wanted to be
helped and that's just a rewarding
experience no matter um no matter what
the um uh however it is you're helping
if you're if if you're doing something
that's appreciated by someone um who who
you think is a valuable person and
scientologists this is the irony of the
whole thing scientologists really are
are are um the ones who believe it and
are in it they genuinely believe they're
saving all mankind Tom Cruz believes
that I promise you it's not a
show well you know it's interesting too
one of the things I've thought about Tom
Cruz that's quite you know rather
striking is I one of my friends in
Hollywood informed me recently that
there's there's maybe only one star now
who's left that can guarantee boss
office success on the basis of his name
and that's Tom Cruz and I've liked Tom
Cruz's movies and one of the things you
can say about Cruz that's very it's
Preposterous in a way but it happens to
be the case is that his commitment to
Scientology has protected him from woke
nonsense so you know that's very
interesting for me to see that and and I
would say like you're a lot crazier if
you're woke than you are if you're a
Scientologist and so you know it's a lot
more destructive a discipline as far or
Endeavor as far as I can tell but but so
the reason I'm saying that is because
you know people can be in error in
fundamental elements of their
metaphysical commitment and still be in
truth in some elements of the way
they're acting and behaving and you know
that's essentially what you were
pointing out to yourself for yourself
but so that begs the question still is
like why did you decide not to just
ignore that evidence like you could have
Twisted yourself into knots and said
that these people who were uh Now sort
of Heretics and who were criticizing the
organization were corrupt or that they
were part of a background conspiracy or
something like that like you could have
written that evidence off that's true so
why you must have been at a point in
your own psychological development where
for other reasons you figured it was
easier to accept what they had to say as
true rather than you know to go through
all the shenanigans you would have had
to to justify their their uh their
deviation from the true path to believe
them was very easy because they were
there at the highest levels so even if
they were lying about the existence of
the upper levels meaning even if they
were lying to me by saying they didn't
exist then they really did exist there
would clearly be something um I'll take
half a step
back if we use this Matrix
analogy and if someone can incredibly
convince you that the Matrix is real
unplugging being unplugged from it is
real only Scientology can do it and
nothing could ever be more more valuable
than that and if you experienced the
truth of that for yourself nothing could
ever get you to leave nothing
nothing and so these people and it was
Dan is the only one person I
mentioned because I knew that out of all
the people speaking out he would know
even more than the others about the
upper unreleased OT levels but the
others would also know just due to their
proximity to David mavich and his entire
staff these people will would know if
Scientology provided so much off offered
the promise of so much spiritual uh
enhancement that you could put up with
any amount of abuse obviously I mean if
we try to switch the conversation to you
know um Christians saving people to go
to heaven and I don't want to talk above
my pay grade here but it's like if you
truly believe that you're salvaging
Spirits for eternity nothing could get
you to stop and I knew that these people
at the highest levels all having left
and all saying the same thing the fact
that they could even bring themselves to
leave was already a hell of a lot of
evidence that whatever was being offered
at the top wasn't enough right got it so
either way even if they were lying the
fact that they had got that far and then
and would then lie was even then that
was indication that something wasn't
right okay got it got it okay so how I'd
like to know two things as we go forward
I want to talk about the material
Corruption of the Scientology Enterprise
because you referred to it as a you know
a real estate scam and I want to delve
into that but I also want to know the
mechanics of how you freed yourself
because I mean you aren't only
metaphysically committed which is a big
deal and borne into it which is a big
deal but you were also practically
committed because it was your job and so
that's a lot of like so for you to leave
that's a more intense psychological
transformation than even a divorce which
would be you know that's up there that's
about as bad as it KS for people in
terms of that and death and so how did
you manage to step out where did you
step to why didn't you despair or
deceive yourself and you know what what
belief did you manage to orient yourself
with as an alternative so the answer to
that question starts in 2006 when my
wife and I were both working uh in the C
organization of Scientology out in Los
Angeles and we were getting sort of fed
up with our day-to-day experience and in
the C organization you're not allowed to
have children if you're going to have
children you have to leave the C
organization um and so we basically um
uh got pregnant so that we could have a
very easy route out of the sea
organization now we still believed in
Scientology we just no longer wanted to
you know be basically working on a
billion-year contract 365 18 hours a day
uh we were like and you both agreed on
that on leaving the sea organization
yeah it was very evident see you're not
allowed to talk with your spouse about
leaving the sea organization but wink
here and a nod there we were like we're
ready to be done with this I see I see
so you had an ally you had a real Ally
that's real helpful okay yeah all right
when we verified she was pregnant we
each went to our respective ethics
officers at our organizations that we
work for and we said we're pregnant
we're not getting an abortion we're
leaving and that was our fairly easy
route out of the seaorg that was 2006 we
didn't officially leave Scientology
until
2014 now 200 so when we leave the C
organization at that point we are what
they call in Scientology public
scientologists we are now people who pay
to do Scientology we don't work for
Scientology so from 200 when my wife and
I moved from Los Angeles to Clearwater
Florida she had a lot of family here
great place to raise a family two and I
start working at at jobs uh making a
good living for various scientologists
different
companies um 2009 is when the Tampa Bay
Times newspapers come um stories come
out called the truth rundown so that's
three years after I left the C
organization now information is coming
out publicly that's making me question
the entire Scientology
Paradigm I start I secretly start
getting in touch with some of these
former Executives now this puts me in a
very dangerous situation because
speaking to people that leave
Scientology is something that can get
you kicked out of Scientology but I was
still my entire existence I was still
dependent on the Scientology ecosystem
for my friends um my my income my my
children's friends my kids schooling all
connected to the world of
Scientology so interestingly enough from
2009 as we described that's when my
whole belief in Scientology started to
dwindle even when I no longer believed
in any part of Scientology I did not
want to get kicked out I did not want to
have to disconnect from my friends I did
not want my wife's family to disconnect
I didn't want my family to disconnect I
was willing to continue to exist in this
ecosystem and not speak out not spread
around negative information to other
scientologists um I decided that how I
was going to add value was I was going
to be someone on the inside who shared
information about the current status of
things with former members who were now
on the outside and are report reporting
on such things to the world at Double
Agent then I wanted to be a double agent
yes yeah yeah unfortunately I'm I'm just
way too sloppy to succeed at that for
more than a few years at a time So
eventually and at this time my mom had
gotten kicked out for spreading around
information about David mavich that they
considered to be negative and they told
me I had to disconnect from my mom well
or I was going to be kicked out but I
didn't want to be kicked out but I was
never never going to disconnect from my
mom so I just lied my butt off to them
for two years about this that I had
disconnected from my mom but in reality
I didn't in Scientology they have a very
strong snitching culture people are
reporting on each other all the time and
I was just getting that's rough lazier
and lazier and more careless in how I
was well I was hiding all of this so
that's that that that's something we
shouldn't just jump over we'll go back
to the story here right away in terms of
the fruits by which you might know an
organization
that's another good one is so that we
already talked about hypocrisy people
claim to be pursuing one thing but their
actions indicate that they're not that's
a performative contradiction philosop
philosophically when you claim an
explicit belief but your actions be it
but then that snitching culture that's a
really bad sign right because one of the
things you see that's absolutely 100%
characteristic of totalitarian States is
that they're they insist upon the
ethical duty of their participants to
inform on other people to the
authorities and you really can't think
of anything that poisons the
relationship between people more
thoroughly than that right because not
only are you in danger of being informed
on at any moment you're also in danger
of being informed on by the worst sort
of person who lies about you to inform
on you to do nothing but redown to their
own credit plus you don't know who you
can trust and who you can't trust in
which case you know you have a
proclivity not to trust anyone so so the
snitch culture how in the world did that
develop within Scientology and and what
were its manifestations as far as you
were concerned oh my goodness um how it
developed I mean Alon hubber explicitly
laid down um various sets of quite
Draconian rules and then created another
policy that says if some if someone is
found to have done something and you are
found to have known about it and to not
have submitted a report on that activity
and behavior you would be penalized to
the same degree as the person who
actually committed the crime so in
Scientology there's something called a
knowledge report and all scientologists
are expected to submit knowledge reports
on other scientologists it's considered
the individual group members putting in
ethics on each other not leaving it up
to the executives to put in ethics on
everyone under them but uh people
putting in ethics on each other El Ron
Herber says so it's a distributed
tyranny that's right he says a
productive easy to live with and work
with group is group that enforces the
discipline member to member on each
other and doesn't leave it up to the
higher ups and so uh the snitching
culture is such an important part of
Scientology and I remember way back when
back in like 1998 I saw this um movie
called oh my God it was about um Swing
Kids and it was about people in Nazi
Germany and the swing swing dancing and
this is when I still believed in
Scientology but it should have been a
red flag for me way back when I remember
seeing the snitching culture portrayed
in this movie about Nazi Germany and I I
remember sitting there
going that's
Scientology that that's that's
Scientology I mean it might seem like
it's a stretch there but it's like the
idea that the only the only good
Scientologist is the one who's reporting
on all of his fellow scientologists oh
yeah boy that's not that's bad that's
bad yeah yeah well that's also you know
it's that's the one of the ways that
totalitarian systems really get a grip
you know one way is that everybody in a
totalitarian system lies about
everything all the time but the other
one is they inform on each other to to
the so-called higher authority right and
then they make that into a moral virtue
yeah that's really that's really really
that's really bad so that that's a bad
one okay so you're you're being told
that you have to leave your mother but
you're not going to do that you don't
want to alienate her your wife and you
have already decided that you're going
to have a child you've left the the
specifics of your job and and uh and um
you and now you're kind of living a
double life he no I'm going to I'm going
to try to cover this superficially and
quickly because if I get into the
details I'm going to get emotional and
I'm
GNA try not to do that
okay
so
what did you remember that that produced
that emotional response it's the answer
to an grab me it's this is the answer to
the question for sure yeah and the story
that I'm going to tell you here is
why why I do my YouTube channel and and
very much relish exposing Scientology
every single day on my YouTube channel
you could say I'm motivated by pure
revenge and that's okay with me
so by the time they realize I'm not
going to disconnect from my
mom they officially kick me out of
Scientology and then they go to my wife
and they say well you have to divorce
your
husband now at this point we have three
daughters so you have to divorce your
husband or you're going to get kicked
out of
Scientology and she says that's not
going to work for
me so they kick her out of
Scientology and so then they go to her
parents and they say you have to
disconnect from your daughter and your
three
granddaughters or you're going to get
kicked out of
Scientology but my wife's parents have
three other
kids who have spouses that are
scientologists who have kids you know
whose whose spouses parents are
scientologists and I felt like my mom
had a had a choice that she could have
made for herself I felt I had a choice I
could have made for myself I felt my
wife had a choice she could have made
for herself but by the time you get to
her parents they're basically going
which kids do we want to
lose which grandkids are we never going
to see
again so my wife's parents disconnect
from her and the grandkids even though
they live five minutes down the
road brutal and then my wife never
saw her dad again until the day he
died oh yeah that's a rough one all
right and so my kids you know when when
my wife and I were officially kicked out
we had both been working for
scientologists so we lost our jobs um
our kids had been going to private
Scientology schools so they were kicked
out of their
schools and um and all of we live in
Clearwater Florida which is the home of
the largest Scientology organization in
the world so the vast majority of all of
our friends you know severed all ties
with us including you know our best
friends and so
um that type of family
destruction is what I personally find
most objectionable about scientology
whether it's coing women to get
abortions to keep serving Scientology
instead of starting families I mean
think I i i d i challenge anyone to name
one other quote unquote religious
organization that Weekly buses its
clergy members to the abortion clinic I
don't think you'll be able to find one
oh yeah that's a rough one that's a
rough one and and those women have a lot
of pressure applied to them to convince
them that they have to get an abortion
because uh it's so much more valuable to
save the Save the Planet than it is to
uh raise a family well there's plenty
there's plenty of that going on in the
broader public at the moment too too
yeah all right well look look let's do
this let's do this um cuz we're coming
up on our hour and a half I want to talk
to you more about what happened to you
personally after you've left and about I
know so for everyone who's watching and
listening there is a
website there is a website associated
with with Aaron that is hosted by people
who aren't very happy with him and we
haven't had a chance to talk to that
about that at all and so what I think
I'll do we've gone through some of your
autobiography which is often what I do
in the additional half an hour that I
speak to my guests on The Daily wire
plus side but I think we'll do that
there and so for all of you who are
watching and listening you know thank
you very much for persevering with us
through this part of the story if you
want to hear that part which is
extraordinarily interesting it's the
backlash against Aaron and what's
happened to him publicly as he's come
out as a Critic of the Scientology
movement we're going to Del into all
that on the daily we plus side and so um
before we do that I'll thank everybody
who are watching and listening for their
attention and the daily wire plus people
for um for facilitating this
conversation I'm way up here in Northern
Alberta we got a crew gathered so we
could do this today so that's really
good and so we'll delve into all that
for another half an hour you guys can
join us on The Daily World plus side if
you want to do that and I'm going to
thank you for walking through this I
learned a lot about scientology you
today and it was very interesting to you
know to see what it is that it offers
that's so seductive both on the plus
side right the fact that it provides
people with a framework within which
their life takes on an enhanced meaning
and then on the negative side the
punishments that are associated with any
deviation from the true path and so
we'll delve into that more on the daily
we plus side so thank you very much sir
for your time and attention and for
everyone else who's participating and
watching and film crew here in sexsmith
Alberta which is where we are today and
we'll take 10 and then we'll get
together and and finish this off sounds
good thank you thank you very much
[Music]
sir